hundreds more foreign passport holders
have left Gaza through the Rafa Crossing
into Egypt the crowds have gathered at
the border but only those on an official
list are being allowed to pass the
biggest group of around 400 were US
citizens the Crossing's been opened for
the first time since the start of this
current conflict between Israel and
Hamas these were some of the first
foreign passport holders to reach the
safety of Egyptian
soil on the other died hundreds were
hoping for their chance to cross but
only those on a list agreed by Israel
and Egypt would be allowed to do
so after more than 3 weeks under Israeli
bombardment and blockade people here
were desperate to
escape we are relying on God and hoping
we'll get out it's still our country and
we feel sad for it for its Destruction
for our friends and loved ones entire
families were destroyed and erased all
martyred and if it weren't for what
happened we wouldn't
leave as well as those allowed to leave
for good Egyptian authorities have
agreed to a small number of medical
evacuations with ambulances crossing the
border to retrieve the severely
injured once in Egypt they were taken to
nearby hospitals for
treatment gaza's own medical facilities
are desperately short of even basic
supplies and are overflowing with the
injured and while more Aid trucks were
allowed through once again on Wednesday
Aid groups say it's only a tiny fraction
of what entered daily before the Hamas
terrorist
attacks the head of the un's relief
agency in Gaza stressed that residents
were in urgent need after he crossed
into Rafa for a
visit and I was shuck by the fact that
everyone there was asking for food was
asking for water we I saw almost every
children trying to express their way
that they need to eat they need to have
water um I never ever have seen
something similar in Gaza when I came
before after
conflict Egyptian officials say more
people will be able to leave over the
coming days but it's unclear just how
long the the Border will remain open to
foreign passport
holders what is certain is that unless
Egypt's government lets Palestinians
cross 2 for the vast majority of those
trapped in Gaza Escape will remain
impossible well hajan baloa is a
journalist based in Gaza and we asked
him whether the small amounts of Aid
being allowed in are making any
difference well in some places some
areas hon one scho like
that is people displaced people are
taking as a shelter they're receiving
more Aid some organizations are
distributed but making huge or a
concrete difference it's not I mean
still we are talking about a huge number
of displ people whether from the northal
GZA City or even those people who are in
this area from the border areas or other
places people they are still struggling
of of getting the aid their distribution
mechanism is not clear to everybody when
when and when I'm asking coordinator
people about that they don't know
sometimes they get some aid from here
and there but um it's still uh it's it's
not easy because there is no cooking gas
so people are not cooking in their homes
no water whether for washing or even uh
for a
drink that's Hasan Bela in Gaza well our
correspondent Rebecca RS is in the
Israeli city of stod near the border
with Gaza and she gave us another update
on Israel's military
offensive well Phil we know that the
ground offensive continues and is
growing that the Israeli military is
saying a little earlier that they have
they've used this figurative term that
they've reached the gates of Gaza City
now that you know is obviously one of
their key points one of the places of
focus it's one of the biggest
residential areas or the biggest
residential area inside the strip of
course we know that the military have
advised everybody living in Gaza City
and further north to head south because
to expect these bombardments last night
saw some pretty heavy bombardments as
well and where we're standing is about 2
kilm from the northern Northeast part
behind me is a city called bate hanon uh
you can hear uh the pounding of
artillery is outgoing artillery um and
you can hear even still some machine gun
fire heavy machine gun fire in the
background from time to time but the
bombardments from here we've been here
for a couple of weeks on and off and the
bombardments in this area have been a
lot more intense in recent days today
we're seeing a little less of that as
they the troops move further south
towards Gaza City where we expect them
to be encircling the city so that they
can continue the bombardments and trying
to to carry out their military aims of
completely destroying hamas's military
capabilities thanks for that um the
president of Israel Isaac Herzog has
given a national address urging Unity
amongst his uh countrymen we'll listen
to a clip of that Rebecca then we'll
come back to
you the enemy seeks to Kindle hatred
between us between Jewish citizens and
Arab citizens we have to fight back
against us without compromise and
single-mindedly we have to reject every
urge toward hatred and racism toward
different groups among us to recall the
dozens of Arab citizens who paid with
their l lives those at home and those in
battle and the most important is to
recall the responsibility and the mutual
respect that exemplifies the Arab
community in
Israel back to Rebecca R is in the south
of Israel uh Rebecca how is uh Society
there dealing with all this
tension well that's a very important and
timely message that you're hearing from
the president there just exactly what
ears it will fall on remains to be seen
uh the tensions here are incredibly High
both in Israel and especially in the
West Bank so we're seeing an an increase
in violence there in particular Arab
Israelis in Israel also saying that
they're feeling uh pressure that they're
feeling squeezed that they they're not
being able to express themselves in the
way they might like they're being uh
even there have been cases of people
being arrested for expressing uh their
feelings about the war in Gaza but on
the West Bank we're see seeing a lot
more violence uh 2023 already before the
war was on track to be the deadliest
year on record for Palestinians in the
West Bank since uh Records began and you
know we have seen that spike a lot since
October 7 the UN saying that more than
130 Palestinians have been killed in
that time since the attack on October
7th and we've seen you know renewed and
continued raids today in particular uh
we've seen a lot of settler violence and
that has also been on the rise of many
settlers um rampaging in the settlers
that being Israeli citizens who live in
the West Bank rampaging uh through uh uh
the West Bank and and even killing uh
Palestinians so today we saw uh settlers
lighting fire to property and rampaging
through areas around the nablas area and
this morning we heard that four
Palestinians were shot in various places
across the West Bank so you know really
the it's very very tense they've
bolstered troops Israeli troops
throughout the West Bank and they're
trying they say to to obviously root out
militants Hamas militants they've made
over 12200 arrests but uh it's creating
a lot of tension and the lives for
Palestinians in those areas is becoming
increasingly difficult thanks for that
Rebecca Rebecca ritas in southern
Israel